# COMS-418-Voronoi-Generator

This is a project for COMS 418 at Iowa State University. The project is to create a Voronoi Diagram and Delaunay Triangulation from a set of points. The project is to be completed in any language, I chose to use C++. 
___

Programming Project: Voronoi Diagram and Delaunay Triangulation
Com S 418/518
(100 pts + 40 bonus pts)
Due at 11:59 pm
Sunday, Apr 28 (extendible to Apr 29 - May 3), 2024

In this programming project, you are asked to implement Fortune's algorithm for Voronoi diagram construction, as well as construction of the Delaunay triangulation via its duality to the Voronoi diagram. You are allowed to use any programming language in the implementation.
Doubly Connected Edge List
Recall from the textbook (pp. 29-33) that a DCEL includes three types of records. In this project, a half-edge from, say, vertex v4 to vertex v5, should be named e4,5; hence its twin half-edge is named e5,4.

Consider the planar subdivision defined by a triangle with vertices v1 = (0, 0), v2 = (1, 0), and v3 = (0, 1). Let f1 be the face bounded by the triangle and f2 be the unbounded face. The following output is a valid DCEL representation of this triangle.

v1 (0, 0) e1,2
v2 (1, 0) e2,3
v3 (0, 1) e3,2

f1 e2,3 nil
f2 nil e1,3

e1,2 v1 e2,1 f1 e2,3 e3,1
e2,1 v2 e1,2 f2 e1,3 e3,2
e1,3 v1 e3,1 f2 e3,2 e2,1
e3,1 v3 e1,3 f1 e1,2 e2,3
e2,3 v2 e3,2 f1 e3,1 e1,2
e3,2 v3 e2,3 f2 e2,1 e1,3

Always leave two blank spaces between adjacent names on each line, and one blank line between records of different types.

Naming Convention
The input file sites.txt consists of multiple lines, each listing the coordinates of one or more point sites separated by blanks. For example, the following input file describes five point sites (2, -3), (-10, 9), (0, 0), (-5, -2), and (4, -7):

(2, -3) (-10, 9) (0, 0)
(-5, -2) (4, -7)

The output "name" of a geometric or graph entity (e.g., a vertex, an edge, etc.) should follow the convention below. In the case that an object-oriented programming language such as Java is used, this name refers to the printed name of the object of some class to represent the geometric entity as generated by the class's toString() method, not the name of a variable referencing the object.

    In your code, the name of a site starts with the letter 'p' and is followed by a number indicating its order in the input. For the previous input example, the site p2 = (-10, 9) while the site p3 = (0, 0).

    In the DCEL representing the (growing) Voronoi diagram, each Voronoi vertex has its name starting with the letter 'v' and ending with a number (which starts at 1 and goes up consecutively). For instance, v5 refers to the fifth vertex in the constructed Voronoi diagram.

    Every Voronoi cell corresponds to a face in the DCEL. It is named by concatenating the letter 'c' with the integer that labels the corresponding site. In the same example above, c4 refers to the Voronoi cell defined by the site p4 = (-5, -2). This cell includes all the points that are closer to p4 than to every other site.

    The naming convention for half-edges follows from the section "Doubly Connected Edge List".

    The four vertices of the diagram's bounding box are named b1, b2, b3, b4 counterclockwise from the lower left vertex.

    All the rays end at points on the four sides of the box. These endpoints, though not real Voronoi vertices, are named with the letter 'b' followed by a number starting at 5 and increasing consecutively.

    A half-edge from a Voronoi vertex, say, v1, to a boundary point, say, b5, which represents a half-infinite Voronoi edge, is named e1,b5. Its twin half-edge from b5 to v1 is named b5,e1.

    The unbounded face is named uf. 

Voronoi Diagram
In the first part of this project, you are asked to implement Fortune's plane sweep algorithm that constructs the Voronoi diagram in O(n log n) time. Your code should handle the following degeneracies:

    All the sites are collinear.
    All the sites are cocircular.
    Multiple events occur at the position of the same sweep. The situation may include
        multiple site events only;
        multiple circle events (possibly involving different circles) only;
        at least one site event and at least one circle event;
        a site appearing right below some break point of the beach line (also seen as a special case of 3c). 

Delaunay Triangulation
Your code should then construct the Delaunay triangulation from the generated DCEL representation of the Voronoi diagram.

    The triangulation is represented by another DCEL with its vertices being the point sites in the original input. For instance, the vertex p2 corresponds to the second point site in the original input. (Note that every vertex's name starts with the letter 'p'.)

    The name of each triangle in the DT starts with the letter 't' and is followed by an integer (which increases consecutively from 1).

    A half-edge, say, from the site p6 to the site p2, should be named as d6,2 beginning with the letter 'd'.

    The unbounded region in the subdivision is still named uf. 

Output
Your code will read from a file name.txt (name being a string of digits, English letters, and dash) and output in the file voronoi.txt. The output includes the DCELs of the constructed Voronoi diagram and Delaunay triangulation like below.

****** Voronoi diagram ******

...


****** Delaunay triangulation ******

...


Graphics (for bonus points)
You may receive up to 40 bonus points for graphical display (20 points) and animation of the execution of Fortune's algorithm (20 points). Some possible animation features are the sweep line motion, propagation of the beach line, and tracing of Voronoi edges by the break points.
Submission and Code Demonstration
You are allowed to use any programming language in the implementation. Meanwhile, please also schedule a 20-minute appointment with the TA Ling Tang (ling@iastate.edu) during the Prep week of Apr 29 - May 3 for a live demonstration. Be sure to submit a zip file of your code online before your appointment. During the appointment, your code will be tested using our input files, and graded based on the test results and your answers to questions posed by the TA. 